you're basically for any position when
riding your mountain bike on any
difficult trail stays pretty constant no
matter what you wanna be out the saddle
because your pedals level and then you
weight through your legs to keep your
body centered over the bike then you
want to think about having soft arms and
strong legs to really absorb all the
bumps coming up from the trail to
isolate your upper body from the shocks
this position is absolutely fundamental
to mountain biking anytime the trail
gets technical or twisty you want to get
in this attack position the next step on
from this is body position throwing your
bike and body around does not
necessarily make you faster but doing it
in the right way can definitely help in
this situation leaning the bike over
driving your weight centrally through
the bike can not only give you more grip
but help you maintain your speed through
a flatter corner
section in a peace trail is a really
good way to work on your speed go to a
favorite piece of trail and do it over
and over again looking for the perfect
line and also maybe trying to find extra
little bits of pom that you maybe miss
first time I think the more you do it
the better your instincts become so now
your body's really working the trail the
next step is thinking about your line
choice now it's absolutely key that you
look a long way down the trail give
yourself enough time to react to what's
coming up ahead and then it's really
important to remember that you have to
look where you want to go and not what
you want to avoid so in this instance
for example this dirty great rock is
absolutely screaming for attention but
the chances are that if you look at it
you're probably going to hit it and
that's not really a very good line at
all much better to look to the right of
it at the nice better trail and then the
chances are you're going to nail it
try and do all your breaking before you
do the cornering really you want to be
chaste in your tires grip one way not
slow down and turn in you might always
be able to do that say on a steep corner
a really constant come off front brake
look at being really smooth coming off
your brakes and your line choice and
that's going to give you the most grip
with a recent increase in popularity of
enduro there are loads of races going on
year round they suit all experience
levels whether you are a beginner or a
seasoned pro you can find some fun
relaxed races that are perfectly
writable by novices there is nothing
quite like racing against the clock to
really up your game obviously it can
work the opposite way if you try to get
too anxious on performing well try to
relax enjoy the experience and take the
positives from it so there you go some
simple skills to help you ride faster
and to help cement all these things
together it's a great idea to go riding
with people that are faster than you to
help you really push your limits all
right guys let's go follow me
guys guys guys wait if you want to take
any of these skills that you've seen
today any further then why not check out
these two videos up here and then so you
don't miss any more GM VM videos why not
click on the subscribe guys guys